README.md, before:

# hof-build
Performs build workflow for hof apps in prod and development

## Usage

Run a build by running `hof-build` from the command line in your project directory.

```
hof-build [task]
```

If no task is specified then all tasks will run.

It is recommended to alias `hof-build` to an npm script in your package.json.

## Tasks

* `browserify` - compiles client-side js with browserify
* `sass` - compiles sass
* `images` - copies images from ./assets/images directory to ./public/images
* `translate` - compiles translation files

## Watch

You can additionally run a `watch` task to start a server instance, which will automatically restart based on changes to files. This will also re-perform the tasks above when relevant files change.

By default files inside `node_modules` directories and dotfiles will not trigger a restart. If you want to include these files then you can set `--watch-node-modules` and `--watch-dotfiles` flags respectively.

## Configuration

The default settings will match those for an app generated using [`hof-generator`](https://npmjs.com/hof-generator).

If a `hof.settings.json` file is found in the application root, then the `build` section of the settings file will be used to override [the default configuration](./config/defaults.js).

Alternatively you can define a path to a local config file by passing a `--config` option

```
hof-build --config /path/to/my/config.js
```

Any task can be disabled by setting its configuration to `false` (or any falsy value).

```js
module.exports = {
  browserify: false
};
```

### Configuration options

Each task has a common configuration format with the following options:

* `src` - defines the input file or files for the build task
* `out` - defines the output location of the built code where relevant
* `match` - defines the pattern for files to watch to trigger a rebuild of this task
* `restart` - defines if this task should result in a server restart

Additionally the server instance created by `watch` can be configured by setting `server` config. Available options are:

* `cmd` - defines the command used to start the server
* `extensions` - defines the file extensions which will be watched to trigger a restart

Commit message:

Add environment variable loader to `watch` task
This allows local environment variables to be defined in a `.env` file in the project to be used for local development. This is easier to manage per-project than setting global env vars (which apply to all projects) or defining vars at runtime using the command line (which is cumbersome to repeat).

Additionally, allowing the file to be specified allows for the easy switching between multiple configuration setups.

README.md, after:

# hof-build
Performs build workflow for hof apps in prod and development

## Usage

Run a build by running `hof-build` from the command line in your project directory.

```
hof-build [task]
```

If no task is specified then all tasks will run.

It is recommended to alias `hof-build` to an npm script in your package.json.

## Tasks

* `browserify` - compiles client-side js with browserify
* `sass` - compiles sass
* `images` - copies images from ./assets/images directory to ./public/images
* `translate` - compiles translation files

## Watch

You can additionally run a `watch` task to start a server instance, which will automatically restart based on changes to files. This will also re-perform the tasks above when relevant files change.

By default files inside `node_modules` directories and dotfiles will not trigger a restart. If you want to include these files then you can set `--watch-node-modules` and `--watch-dotfiles` flags respectively.

### Local environment variables

You can load local environment variables from a file by passing an `--env` flag to `hof-build watch` and creating a `.env` file in your project root that defines your local variables as follows:

```
MY_LOCAL_ENVVAR=foo
MY_OTHER_ENVVAR=bar
```

_Note: `export` is not required, and values should not be quoted._

To load variables from a file other than `.env` you should pass the location of the file as a value on the `--env` flag.

```
hof-build watch --env .envdev
```

## Configuration

The default settings will match those for an app generated using [`hof-generator`](https://npmjs.com/hof-generator).

If a `hof.settings.json` file is found in the application root, then the `build` section of the settings file will be used to override [the default configuration](./config/defaults.js).

Alternatively you can define a path to a local config file by passing a `--config` option

```
hof-build --config /path/to/my/config.js
```

Any task can be disabled by setting its configuration to `false` (or any falsy value).

```js
module.exports = {
  browserify: false
};
```

### Configuration options

Each task has a common configuration format with the following options:

* `src` - defines the input file or files for the build task
* `out` - defines the output location of the built code where relevant
* `match` - defines the pattern for files to watch to trigger a rebuild of this task
* `restart` - defines if this task should result in a server restart

Additionally the server instance created by `watch` can be configured by setting `server` config. Available options are:

* `cmd` - defines the command used to start the server
* `extensions` - defines the file extensions which will be watched to trigger a restart
